README.rst, before:

==========================================
chalice - A Microframework For API Gateway
==========================================

Chalice is a python microframework that allows
you to quickly create and deploy applications that
use Amazon API Gateway and AWS Lambda.
It allow you to:

* Quickly create rest APIs in python
* Deploy your API using API Gateway and AWS Lambda.
  No servers necessary.

::

    $ chalice new-project && cd new-project
    $ cat app.py

    from chalice import Chalice

    app = Chalice(app_name="helloworld")

    @app.route("/")
    def index():
        return {"hello": "world"}

    $ chalice deploy
    ...
    Your application is available at: https://endpoint/dev

    $ curl https://endpoint/dev
    {"hello": "world"}


Quickstart
==========

In this tutorial, you'll create and deploy a chalice application.
First, you'll need to install chalice.  Note, using a virtualenv
is recommended::

    $ pip install virtualenv
    $ virtualenv ~/.virtualenvs/chalice-demo
    $ source ~/.virtualenvs/chalice-demo/bin/activate

Next, in your virtualenv, install ``chalice``::

    $ pip install chalice

You can verify you have chalice installed by running::

    $ chalice --help
    Usage: chalice [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...
    ...

The next thing we'll do is create a chalice project::

    $ chalice new-project helloworld

This will create a ``helloworld`` directory.  Cd into this
directory.  You'll see several files have been created for you::

    $ cd helloworld
    $ ls -la
    drwxr-xr-x   .chalice
    -rw-r--r--   app.py
    -rw-r--r--   requirements.txt

You can ignore the ``.chalice`` directory for now, the two main files
we'll focus on is ``app.py`` and ``requirements.txt``.

Let's take a look at the ``app.py`` file:

.. code-block:: python

    from chalice import Chalice

    app = Chalice(app_name='helloworld')


    @app.route('/')
    def index():
        return {'hello': 'world'}


The ``new-project`` command created a sample app that defines a
single view, ``/``, that when called will return the JSON body
``{"hello": "world"}``.

Let's deploy this app.  Make sure you're in the ``helloworld``
directory and run ``chalice deploy``::

    $ chalice deploy
    ...
    Initiating first time deployment...
    https://qxea58oupc.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/

You now have an API up and running using API Gateway and Lambda::

    $ curl https://qxea58oupc.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/
    {"hello": "world"}

For the rest of these tutorials, we'll be using the ``httpie`` instead
of ``curl`` (https://github.com/jkbrzt/httpie).  You can install
``httpie`` using ``pip install httpie``, or if you're on Mac, you can
run ``brew install httpie``.  The Github link has more information on
installation instructions.  Here's an example of using ``httpie`` to
request the root resource of the API we just created.  Note that
the command name is ``http``::


    $ http https://qxea58oupc.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Connection: keep-alive
    Content-Length: 18
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Mon, 30 May 2016 17:55:50 GMT
    X-Cache: Miss from cloudfront

    {
        "hello": "world"
    }


You've now created your first chalice app.

The next few sections will build on this quickstart section and introduce
you to additional features of chalice including: URL parameter capturing,
error handling, advanced routing, current request metadata, and automatic
policy generation.


Tutorial: URL Parameters
========================

Now we're going to make a few changes to our ``app.py`` file that
demonstrate additional capabilities that chalice has.

Our application so far has a single view that allows you to make
an HTTP GET request to ``/``.  Now let's suppose we want to capture
parts of the URI:

.. code-block:: python

    from chalice import Chalice

    app = Chalice(app_name='helloworld')

    CITIES_TO_STATE = {
        'seattle': 'WA',
        'portland': 'OR',
    }


    @app.route('/')
    def index():
        return {'hello': 'world'}

    @app.route('/cities/{city}')
    def state_of_city(name):
        return {'state': CITIES_TO_STATE[name]}


In the example above we've now added a ``state_of_city`` view that allows
a user to specify a city name.  The view function takes the city
name and returns name of the state the city is in.  Notice that the
``@app.route`` decorator has a URL pattern of ``/cities/{city}``.  This
means that the value of ``{city}`` is captured and passed to the view
function.  You can also see that the ``state_of_city`` takes a single
argument.  This argument is the name of the city provided by the user.
For example::

    GET /cities/seattle   --> state_of_city('seattle')
    GET /cities/portland  --> state_of_city('portland')

Now that we've updated our ``app.py`` file with this new view function,
let's redeploy our application.  You can run ``chalice deploy`` from
the ``helloworld`` directory and chalice will deploy your application::

    $ chalice deploy

Let's try it out.  Note the examples below use the ``http`` command
from the ``httpie`` package.  You can install this using ``pip install httpie``::

    $ http https://qxea58oupc.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/cities/seattle
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

    {
        "state": "WA"
    }

    $ http https://qxea58oupc.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/cities/portland
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

    {
        "state": "OR"
    }


Notice what happens if we try to request a city that's not in our
``CITIES_TO_STATE`` map::

    $ http https://qxea58oupc.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/cities/vancouver
    HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
    Content-Type: application/json
    X-Cache: Error from cloudfront

    {
        "Code": "ChaliceViewError",
        "Message": "ChaliceViewError: An internal server error occurred."
    }


In the next section, we'll see how to fix this and provide better
error messages.


Tutorial: Error Messages
========================

In the example above, you'll notice that when our chalice app raised
an uncaught exception, a 500 internal server error was returned.

In this section, we're going to show how you can debug and improve
these error messages.

The first thing we're going to look at is how we can debug this
issue.  By default, chalice has debugging turned off, but you can
enable debugging to get more information:

.. code-block:: python

    from chalice import Chalice

    app = Chalice(app_name='helloworld')
    app.debug = True


The ``app.debug = True`` enables debugging for your chalice app.
Save this file and redeploy your changes::

    $ chalice deploy
    ...
    https://qxea58oupc.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/

When you now request the same URL that returned an internal
server error, you'll now get back the original stack trace::

    $ http https://qxea58oupc.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/cities/vancouver
    {
        "errorMessage": "u'vancouver'",
        "errorType": "KeyError",
        "stackTrace": [
            [
                "/var/task/chalice/__init__.py",
                134,
                "__call__",
                "raise e"
            ]
        ]
    }

(TODO: The above uses the default error structuring code from lambda.  I'm
considering just handling this in Chalice to get a standard ``Code`` and
``Message``, with a standard looking traceback instead of showing a stack
trace as a list).

We can see that the error is caused from an uncaught ``KeyError`` resulting
from trying to access the ``vancouver`` key.

Now that we know the error, we can fix our code.  What we'd like to do is
catch this exception and instead return a more helpful error message
to the user.  Here's the updated code:

.. code-block:: python

    from chalice import BadRequestError

    @app.route('/cities/{city}')
    def state_of_city(name):
        try:
            return {'state': CITIES_TO_STATE[name]}
        except KeyError:
            raise BadRequestError("Unknown city '%s', valid choices are: %s" % (
                name, ', '.join(CITIES_TO_STATE.keys())))


Save and deploy these changes::

    $ chalice deploy
    $ http https://qxea58oupc.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/cities/vancouver
    HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request

    {
        "Code": "BadRequestError",
        "Message": "BadRequestError: Unknown city 'vancouver', valid choices are: portland, seattle"
    }

We can see now that we can a ``Code`` and ``Message`` key, with the message
being the value we passed to ``BadRequestError``.  Whenver you raise
a ``BadRequestError`` from your view function, chalice will return an
HTTP status code of 400 along with a JSON body with a ``Code`` and ``Message``.
There's a few additional exceptions you can raise from chalice::

* ChaliceViewError - return a status code of 500
* NotFoundError - return a status code of 404

Tutorial: Additional Routing
============================

So for, our examples have only allowed GET requests.
It's actually possible to support additional HTTP methods.
Here's an example of a view function that supports PUT:

.. code-block:: python

    @app.route('/resource/{value}', methods=['PUT'])
    def put_test(value):
        return {"value": value}

We can test this method using the ``http`` command::

    $ http PUT https://qxea58oupc.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/resource/foo
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

    {
        "value": "foo"
    }

Note that the ``methods`` kwarg accepts a list of methods.  Your view function
will be called when any of the HTTP methods you specify are used for the
specified resource.  For example:

.. code-block:: python

    @app.route('/myview', methods=['POST', 'PUT'])
    def myview():
        pass

The above view function will be called when either an HTTP POST or
PUT is sent to ``/myview``.  In the next section we'll go over
how you can introspect the given request in order to differentiate between
various HTTP methods.

Tutorial: Request Metadata
==========================

In the examples above, you saw how to create a view function that supports
an HTTP PUT request as well as a view function that supports both POST and
PUT via the same view function.  However, there's more information we
might need about a given request:

* In a PUT/POST, you frequently send a request body.  We need some
  way of accessing the contents of the request body.
* For view functions that support multiple HTTP methods, we'd like
  to detect which HTTP method was used so we can have different
  code paths for PUTs vs. POSTs.

All of this and more is handled by the current request object that
chalice makes available to each view function when it's called.

Let's see an example of this.  Suppose we want to create a view function
that allowed you to PUT data to an object and retrieve that data
via a corresponding GET.  We could accomplish that with the
following view function:

.. code-block:: python

    OBJECTS = {
    }

    @app.route('/objects/{key}', methods=['GET', 'PUT'])
    def myobject(key):
        request = app.current_request
        if request.method == 'PUT':
            OBJECTS[key] = request.json_body
        elif request.method == 'GET':
            try:
                return {key: OBJECTS[key]}
            except KeyError:
                raise NotFoundError(key)


Save this in your ``app.py`` file and rerun ``chalice deploy``.
Now, you can make a PUT request to ``/objects/your-key`` with a request
body, and retrieve the value of that body by making a subsequent
``GET`` request to the same resource.  Here's an example of its usage::

    # First, trying to retrieve the key will return a 404.
    $ http GET https://bsy4izx4uk.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/objects/mykey
    HTTP/1.1 404 Not Found

    {
        "Code": "NotFoundError",
        "Message": "NotFoundError: mykey"
    }

    # Next, we'll create that key be sending a PUT request.
    $ echo '{"foo": "bar"}' | http PUT https://bsy4izx4uk.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/objects/mykey
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

    null

    # And now we no longer get a 404, we instead get the value we previously
    # put.
    $ http GET https://bsy4izx4uk.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/objects/mykey
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

    {
        "mykey": {
            "foo": "bar"
        }
    }

You might see a problem with storing the objects in a module level
``OBJECTS`` variable.  We address this in the next section.

The ``app.current_request`` object also has the following properties.


::

* ``current_request.query_params`` - A dict of the query params for the request.
* ``current_request.headers`` - A dict of the request headers.
* ``current_request.uri_params`` - A dict of the captured URI params.
* ``current_request.method`` -  The HTTP method (as a string).
* ``current_request.json_body`` - The parsed JSON body (``json.loads(raw_body)``)
* ``current_request.context`` - A dict of additional context information
* ``current_request.stage_vars`` - Configuration for the API Gateway stage

Don't worry about the ``context`` and ``stage_vars`` for now.  We haven't
discussed those concepts yet.  The ``current_request`` object also
has a ``to_dict`` method, which returns all the information about the
current request as a dictionary.  Let's use this method to write a view
function that returns everything it knows about the request::


    @app.route('/introspect')
    def introspect():
        return app.current_request.to_dict()


Save this to your ``app.py`` file and redeploy with ``chalice deploy``.
Here's an example of hitting the ``/introspect`` URL.  Note how we're
sending a query string as well as a custom ``X-TestHeader`` header::


    $ http 'https://bsy4izx4uk.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/introspect?query1=value1&query2=value2' 'X-TestHeader: Foo'
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

    {
        "context": {
            ...
            "resource-path": "/introspect",
            "stage": "dev",
            "user-agent": "HTTPie/0.9.3",
            "user-arn": ""
        },
        "headers": {
            "Accept": "*/*",
             ...
            "X-TestHeader": "Foo"
        },
        "json_body": {},
        "method": "GET",
        "query_params": {
            "query1": "value1",
            "query2": "value2"
        },
        "stage_vars": {},
        "uri_params": {}
    }

Tutorial: Policy Generation
===========================

In the previous section we created a basic rest API that
allowed you to store JSON objects by sending the JSON
in the body of an HTTP PUT request to ``/objects/{name}``.
You could then retrieve objects by sending a GET request to
``/objects/{name}``.

However, there's a problem with the code we wrote:

.. code-block:: python

    OBJECTS = {
    }

    @app.route('/objects/{key}', methods=['GET', 'PUT'])
    def myobject(key):
        request = app.current_request
        if request.method == 'PUT':
            OBJECTS[key] = request.json_body
        elif request.method == 'GET':
            try:
                return {key: OBJECTS[key]}
            except KeyError:
                raise NotFoundError(key)


We're storing the key value pairs in a module level ``OBJECTS``
variable.  We can't rely on local storage like this persisting
across requests.

A better solution would be to store this information in Amazon S3.
To do this, we're going to use boto3, the AWS SDK for Python.
First, install boto3::

    $ pip install boto3

Next, add ``boto3`` to your requirements.txt file::

    $ echo 'boto3==1.3.1' >> requirements.txt

The requirements.txt file should be in the same directory that contains
your ``app.py`` file.  Next, let's update our view code to use boto3:

.. code-block:: python

    import json
    import boto3
    from botocore.exceptions import ClientError


    S3 = boto3.client('s3', region_name='us-west-2')
    BUCKET = 'your-bucket-name'


    @app.route('/objects/{key}', methods=['GET', 'PUT'])
    def s3objects(key):
        request = app.current_request
        if request.method == 'PUT':
            S3.put_object(Bucket=BUCKET, Key=key,
                          Body=json.dumps(request.json_body))
        elif request.method == 'GET':
            try:
                response = S3.get_object(Bucket=BUCKET, Key=key)
                return json.loads(response['Body'].read())
            except ClientError as e:
                raise NotFoundError(key)

Make sure to change ``BUCKET`` with the name of an S3 bucket
you own.  Redeploy your changes with ``chalice deploy``.
Now whenver we make a ``PUT`` request to ``/objects/keyname``, the
data send will be stored in S3.  Subsequent ``GET`` requests will
retrieve this data from S3.

Commit message:

Use shortened endpoint URLs in tutorial

README.rst, after:

==========================================
chalice - A Microframework For API Gateway
==========================================

Chalice is a python microframework that allows
you to quickly create and deploy applications that
use Amazon API Gateway and AWS Lambda.
It allow you to:

* Quickly create rest APIs in python
* Deploy your API using API Gateway and AWS Lambda.
  No servers necessary.

::

    $ chalice new-project && cd new-project
    $ cat app.py

    from chalice import Chalice

    app = Chalice(app_name="helloworld")

    @app.route("/")
    def index():
        return {"hello": "world"}

    $ chalice deploy
    ...
    Your application is available at: https://endpoint/dev

    $ curl https://endpoint/dev
    {"hello": "world"}


Quickstart
==========

In this tutorial, you'll create and deploy a chalice application.
First, you'll need to install chalice.  Note, using a virtualenv
is recommended::

    $ pip install virtualenv
    $ virtualenv ~/.virtualenvs/chalice-demo
    $ source ~/.virtualenvs/chalice-demo/bin/activate

Next, in your virtualenv, install ``chalice``::

    $ pip install chalice

You can verify you have chalice installed by running::

    $ chalice --help
    Usage: chalice [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]...
    ...

The next thing we'll do is create a chalice project::

    $ chalice new-project helloworld

This will create a ``helloworld`` directory.  Cd into this
directory.  You'll see several files have been created for you::

    $ cd helloworld
    $ ls -la
    drwxr-xr-x   .chalice
    -rw-r--r--   app.py
    -rw-r--r--   requirements.txt

You can ignore the ``.chalice`` directory for now, the two main files
we'll focus on is ``app.py`` and ``requirements.txt``.

Let's take a look at the ``app.py`` file:

.. code-block:: python

    from chalice import Chalice

    app = Chalice(app_name='helloworld')


    @app.route('/')
    def index():
        return {'hello': 'world'}


The ``new-project`` command created a sample app that defines a
single view, ``/``, that when called will return the JSON body
``{"hello": "world"}``.

Let's deploy this app.  Make sure you're in the ``helloworld``
directory and run ``chalice deploy``::

    $ chalice deploy
    ...
    Initiating first time deployment...
    https://qxea58oupc.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/

You now have an API up and running using API Gateway and Lambda::

    $ curl https://qxea58oupc.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/
    {"hello": "world"}

For the rest of these tutorials, we'll be using the ``httpie`` instead
of ``curl`` (https://github.com/jkbrzt/httpie).  You can install
``httpie`` using ``pip install httpie``, or if you're on Mac, you can
run ``brew install httpie``.  The Github link has more information on
installation instructions.  Here's an example of using ``httpie`` to
request the root resource of the API we just created.  Note that
the command name is ``http``::


    $ http https://qxea58oupc.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Connection: keep-alive
    Content-Length: 18
    Content-Type: application/json
    Date: Mon, 30 May 2016 17:55:50 GMT
    X-Cache: Miss from cloudfront

    {
        "hello": "world"
    }


Additionally, the API Gateway endpoints will be shortened to
``https://endpoint/dev/`` for brevity.  By sure to substitue
``https://endpoint/dev/`` for the actual endpoint that chalice displays
when you deploy your API (it will look something like
``https://abcdefg.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/dev/``.

Next Steps
----------

You've now created your first chalice app.

The next few sections will build on this quickstart section and introduce
you to additional features of chalice including: URL parameter capturing,
error handling, advanced routing, current request metadata, and automatic
policy generation.


Tutorial: URL Parameters
========================

Now we're going to make a few changes to our ``app.py`` file that
demonstrate additional capabilities that chalice has.

Our application so far has a single view that allows you to make
an HTTP GET request to ``/``.  Now let's suppose we want to capture
parts of the URI:

.. code-block:: python

    from chalice import Chalice

    app = Chalice(app_name='helloworld')

    CITIES_TO_STATE = {
        'seattle': 'WA',
        'portland': 'OR',
    }


    @app.route('/')
    def index():
        return {'hello': 'world'}

    @app.route('/cities/{city}')
    def state_of_city(name):
        return {'state': CITIES_TO_STATE[name]}


In the example above we've now added a ``state_of_city`` view that allows
a user to specify a city name.  The view function takes the city
name and returns name of the state the city is in.  Notice that the
``@app.route`` decorator has a URL pattern of ``/cities/{city}``.  This
means that the value of ``{city}`` is captured and passed to the view
function.  You can also see that the ``state_of_city`` takes a single
argument.  This argument is the name of the city provided by the user.
For example::

    GET /cities/seattle   --> state_of_city('seattle')
    GET /cities/portland  --> state_of_city('portland')

Now that we've updated our ``app.py`` file with this new view function,
let's redeploy our application.  You can run ``chalice deploy`` from
the ``helloworld`` directory and chalice will deploy your application::

    $ chalice deploy

Let's try it out.  Note the examples below use the ``http`` command
from the ``httpie`` package.  You can install this using ``pip install httpie``::

    $ http https://endpoint/dev/cities/seattle
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

    {
        "state": "WA"
    }

    $ http https://endpoint/dev/cities/portland
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

    {
        "state": "OR"
    }


Notice what happens if we try to request a city that's not in our
``CITIES_TO_STATE`` map::

    $ http https://endpoint/dev/cities/vancouver
    HTTP/1.1 500 Internal Server Error
    Content-Type: application/json
    X-Cache: Error from cloudfront

    {
        "Code": "ChaliceViewError",
        "Message": "ChaliceViewError: An internal server error occurred."
    }


In the next section, we'll see how to fix this and provide better
error messages.


Tutorial: Error Messages
========================

In the example above, you'll notice that when our chalice app raised
an uncaught exception, a 500 internal server error was returned.

In this section, we're going to show how you can debug and improve
these error messages.

The first thing we're going to look at is how we can debug this
issue.  By default, chalice has debugging turned off, but you can
enable debugging to get more information:

.. code-block:: python

    from chalice import Chalice

    app = Chalice(app_name='helloworld')
    app.debug = True


The ``app.debug = True`` enables debugging for your chalice app.
Save this file and redeploy your changes::

    $ chalice deploy
    ...
    https://endpoint/dev/

When you now request the same URL that returned an internal
server error, you'll now get back the original stack trace::

    $ http https://endpoint/dev/cities/vancouver
    {
        "errorMessage": "u'vancouver'",
        "errorType": "KeyError",
        "stackTrace": [
            [
                "/var/task/chalice/__init__.py",
                134,
                "__call__",
                "raise e"
            ]
        ]
    }

(TODO: The above uses the default error structuring code from lambda.  I'm
considering just handling this in Chalice to get a standard ``Code`` and
``Message``, with a standard looking traceback instead of showing a stack
trace as a list).

We can see that the error is caused from an uncaught ``KeyError`` resulting
from trying to access the ``vancouver`` key.

Now that we know the error, we can fix our code.  What we'd like to do is
catch this exception and instead return a more helpful error message
to the user.  Here's the updated code:

.. code-block:: python

    from chalice import BadRequestError

    @app.route('/cities/{city}')
    def state_of_city(name):
        try:
            return {'state': CITIES_TO_STATE[name]}
        except KeyError:
            raise BadRequestError("Unknown city '%s', valid choices are: %s" % (
                name, ', '.join(CITIES_TO_STATE.keys())))


Save and deploy these changes::

    $ chalice deploy
    $ http https://endpoint/dev/cities/vancouver
    HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request

    {
        "Code": "BadRequestError",
        "Message": "BadRequestError: Unknown city 'vancouver', valid choices are: portland, seattle"
    }

We can see now that we can a ``Code`` and ``Message`` key, with the message
being the value we passed to ``BadRequestError``.  Whenver you raise
a ``BadRequestError`` from your view function, chalice will return an
HTTP status code of 400 along with a JSON body with a ``Code`` and ``Message``.
There's a few additional exceptions you can raise from chalice::

* ChaliceViewError - return a status code of 500
* NotFoundError - return a status code of 404

Tutorial: Additional Routing
============================

So for, our examples have only allowed GET requests.
It's actually possible to support additional HTTP methods.
Here's an example of a view function that supports PUT:

.. code-block:: python

    @app.route('/resource/{value}', methods=['PUT'])
    def put_test(value):
        return {"value": value}

We can test this method using the ``http`` command::

    $ http PUT https://endpoint/dev/resource/foo
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

    {
        "value": "foo"
    }

Note that the ``methods`` kwarg accepts a list of methods.  Your view function
will be called when any of the HTTP methods you specify are used for the
specified resource.  For example:

.. code-block:: python

    @app.route('/myview', methods=['POST', 'PUT'])
    def myview():
        pass

The above view function will be called when either an HTTP POST or
PUT is sent to ``/myview``.  In the next section we'll go over
how you can introspect the given request in order to differentiate between
various HTTP methods.

Tutorial: Request Metadata
==========================

In the examples above, you saw how to create a view function that supports
an HTTP PUT request as well as a view function that supports both POST and
PUT via the same view function.  However, there's more information we
might need about a given request:

* In a PUT/POST, you frequently send a request body.  We need some
  way of accessing the contents of the request body.
* For view functions that support multiple HTTP methods, we'd like
  to detect which HTTP method was used so we can have different
  code paths for PUTs vs. POSTs.

All of this and more is handled by the current request object that
chalice makes available to each view function when it's called.

Let's see an example of this.  Suppose we want to create a view function
that allowed you to PUT data to an object and retrieve that data
via a corresponding GET.  We could accomplish that with the
following view function:

.. code-block:: python

    OBJECTS = {
    }

    @app.route('/objects/{key}', methods=['GET', 'PUT'])
    def myobject(key):
        request = app.current_request
        if request.method == 'PUT':
            OBJECTS[key] = request.json_body
        elif request.method == 'GET':
            try:
                return {key: OBJECTS[key]}
            except KeyError:
                raise NotFoundError(key)


Save this in your ``app.py`` file and rerun ``chalice deploy``.
Now, you can make a PUT request to ``/objects/your-key`` with a request
body, and retrieve the value of that body by making a subsequent
``GET`` request to the same resource.  Here's an example of its usage::

    # First, trying to retrieve the key will return a 404.
    $ http GET https://endpoint/dev/objects/mykey
    HTTP/1.1 404 Not Found

    {
        "Code": "NotFoundError",
        "Message": "NotFoundError: mykey"
    }

    # Next, we'll create that key be sending a PUT request.
    $ echo '{"foo": "bar"}' | http PUT https://endpoint/dev/objects/mykey
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

    null

    # And now we no longer get a 404, we instead get the value we previously
    # put.
    $ http GET https://endpoint/dev/objects/mykey
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

    {
        "mykey": {
            "foo": "bar"
        }
    }

You might see a problem with storing the objects in a module level
``OBJECTS`` variable.  We address this in the next section.

The ``app.current_request`` object also has the following properties.

* ``current_request.query_params`` - A dict of the query params for the request.
* ``current_request.headers`` - A dict of the request headers.
* ``current_request.uri_params`` - A dict of the captured URI params.
* ``current_request.method`` -  The HTTP method (as a string).
* ``current_request.json_body`` - The parsed JSON body (``json.loads(raw_body)``)
* ``current_request.context`` - A dict of additional context information
* ``current_request.stage_vars`` - Configuration for the API Gateway stage

Don't worry about the ``context`` and ``stage_vars`` for now.  We haven't
discussed those concepts yet.  The ``current_request`` object also
has a ``to_dict`` method, which returns all the information about the
current request as a dictionary.  Let's use this method to write a view
function that returns everything it knows about the request::


    @app.route('/introspect')
    def introspect():
        return app.current_request.to_dict()


Save this to your ``app.py`` file and redeploy with ``chalice deploy``.
Here's an example of hitting the ``/introspect`` URL.  Note how we're
sending a query string as well as a custom ``X-TestHeader`` header::


    $ http 'https://endpoint/dev/introspect?query1=value1&query2=value2' 'X-TestHeader: Foo'
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

    {
        "context": {
            ...
            "resource-path": "/introspect",
            "stage": "dev",
            "user-agent": "HTTPie/0.9.3",
            "user-arn": ""
        },
        "headers": {
            "Accept": "*/*",
             ...
            "X-TestHeader": "Foo"
        },
        "json_body": {},
        "method": "GET",
        "query_params": {
            "query1": "value1",
            "query2": "value2"
        },
        "stage_vars": {},
        "uri_params": {}
    }

Tutorial: Policy Generation
===========================

In the previous section we created a basic rest API that
allowed you to store JSON objects by sending the JSON
in the body of an HTTP PUT request to ``/objects/{name}``.
You could then retrieve objects by sending a GET request to
``/objects/{name}``.

However, there's a problem with the code we wrote:

.. code-block:: python

    OBJECTS = {
    }

    @app.route('/objects/{key}', methods=['GET', 'PUT'])
    def myobject(key):
        request = app.current_request
        if request.method == 'PUT':
            OBJECTS[key] = request.json_body
        elif request.method == 'GET':
            try:
                return {key: OBJECTS[key]}
            except KeyError:
                raise NotFoundError(key)


We're storing the key value pairs in a module level ``OBJECTS``
variable.  We can't rely on local storage like this persisting
across requests.

A better solution would be to store this information in Amazon S3.
To do this, we're going to use boto3, the AWS SDK for Python.
First, install boto3::

    $ pip install boto3

Next, add ``boto3`` to your requirements.txt file::

    $ echo 'boto3==1.3.1' >> requirements.txt

The requirements.txt file should be in the same directory that contains
your ``app.py`` file.  Next, let's update our view code to use boto3:

.. code-block:: python

    import json
    import boto3
    from botocore.exceptions import ClientError


    S3 = boto3.client('s3', region_name='us-west-2')
    BUCKET = 'your-bucket-name'


    @app.route('/objects/{key}', methods=['GET', 'PUT'])
    def s3objects(key):
        request = app.current_request
        if request.method == 'PUT':
            S3.put_object(Bucket=BUCKET, Key=key,
                          Body=json.dumps(request.json_body))
        elif request.method == 'GET':
            try:
                response = S3.get_object(Bucket=BUCKET, Key=key)
                return json.loads(response['Body'].read())
            except ClientError as e:
                raise NotFoundError(key)

Make sure to change ``BUCKET`` with the name of an S3 bucket
you own.  Redeploy your changes with ``chalice deploy``.
Now whenver we make a ``PUT`` request to ``/objects/keyname``, the
data send will be stored in S3.  Subsequent ``GET`` requests will
retrieve this data from S3.
