Custom Domain Names
===================

In this tutorial, we're going to create a REST API and associate our own custom
domain with this REST API.  This allows us to not use the auto-generated domain
name that API Gateway automatically creates when we deploy our REST API.

Installation and Configuration
------------------------------

If you haven't already setup and configured Chalice, see the
:doc:`../quickstart` for a step by step guide.  You can run these commands
to create a basic Chalice app::

    $ python3 --version
    Python 3.7.3
    $ python3 -m venv venv37
    $ . venv37/bin/activate
    $ python3 -m pip install chalice
    $ chalice new-project customdomain
    $ cd customdomain


Configure and Deploy a REGIONAL Endpoint
----------------------------------------

Before we configure a custom domain for our REST API, we'll deploy
our REST API so we can see the auto-generated domain name that API Gateway
creates for us.

First, we'll change our endpoint type from EDGE (the default) to REGIONAL.
Update your ``.chalice/config.json`` file so it looks like this::

    $ cat .chalice/config.json
    {
      "version": "2.0",
      "app_name": "customdomain",
      "api_gateway_endpoint_type": "REGIONAL",
      "stages": {
        "dev": {
          "api_gateway_stage": "api"
        }
      }
    }

Now we'll deploy our application.  Note the URL that's printed when
your application is deployed.

::

    $ chalice deploy
    Creating deployment package.
    Creating IAM role: customdomain-dev
    Creating lambda function: customdomain-dev
    Creating Rest API
    Resources deployed:
      - Lambda ARN: arn:aws:lambda:us-west-2:12345:function:customdomain-dev
      - Rest API URL: https://qxea58abcd.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/api/

You now have an API up and running using API Gateway and Lambda::

    $ curl https://qxea58abcd.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/api/
    {"hello": "world"}

The ``qxea58abcd.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com`` domain name was
auto-generated by API Gateway.  Replacing this domain name with our own
custom domain name allows us to use simpler and more intuitive URLs that
we can provide to our API users.


Configuring a Custom Domain
---------------------------

In this tutorial, we're using Amazon Route53 to manage our DNS configuration.
If you're using a third-party domain registrar, the steps will be similar, but
you will have to create your DNS records using your provider's web interface or
API.

For this tutorial, we'll configure the domain ``chalice-demo-app.com``.  Be
sure to replace this value with your own domain name.

Creating a Hosted Zone
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

First, we'll need to create a hosted zone in Route 53.  If you already have
a hosted zone created for your domain, you can skip this step.

We'll be using the AWS CLI V2 to configure our domain.  You can follow
the
`installation instructions <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/install-cliv2.html>`__
if you don't have the AWS CLI installed.

::

    $ aws route53 create-hosted-zone --name chalice-demo-app.com --caller-reference 12345
    {
        "Location": "https://route53.amazonaws.com/2013-04-01/hostedzone/ZABCDEFGABCDEFGLDO822",
        "HostedZone": {
            "Id": "/hostedzone/ZABCDEFGABCDEFGLDO822",
            "Name": "chalice-demo-app.com.",
            "CallerReference": "12345",
            "Config": {
                "PrivateZone": false
            },
            "ResourceRecordSetCount": 2
        },
        "ChangeInfo": {
            "Id": "/change/C07395431VDLB0CY65VP",
            "Status": "PENDING",
            "SubmittedAt": "2020-07-21T17:13:54.709000+00:00"
        },
        "DelegationSet": {
            "NameServers": [
                "ns-123.awsdns-31.net",
                "ns-123.awsdns-05.com",
                "ns-123.awsdns-09.org",
                "ns-123.awsdns-40.co.uk"
            ]
        }
    }

You'll need to save the value of the hosted zone id for later.
From the output above the line ``"Id": "/hostedzone/ZABCDEFGABCDEFGLDO822",``
contains our hosted zone id of ``ZABCDEFGABCDEFGLDO822``.  We'll refer
to this value as ``$OUR_HOSTED_ZONE_ID`` later.

You'll now need to register the ``"NameServers"`` shown in the output above
with your domain registrar.


Creating an ACM Certificate 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now that we have our hosted zone, we'll need to create an ACM certificate
associated with this domain.  This is the SSL/TLS certificate that will be
used when requests are made to our custom domain.  In this example, we'll
create a wildcard certificate for ``*.chalice-demo-app.com``.  Note that
we're creating a ``REGIONAL`` endpoint type for our REST API, which means
that our ACM certificate **must** be in the same region as our REST API.
In this example, we're using ``us-west-2``.  If you're using the default
``EDGE`` endpoint type, the ACM cert must be in ``us-east-1``.  You can
explicitly specify the region using the ``--region`` CLI parameter if needed.

::

    $ aws acm request-certificate --domain-name "*.chalice-demo-app.com" \
        --validation-method DNS --idempotency-token 12345 \
        --options CertificateTransparencyLoggingPreference=DISABLED
    {
        "CertificateArn": "arn:aws:acm:us-west-2:0123456789:certificate/578efbda-6bc7-4ae2-9964-6e6c3f58008b"
    }

Save the value of ``CertificateArn`` shown in the output above.  We'll
need this value when we configure our app to use this custom domain.

Before we can use this certificate, we need to validate this certificate.
This process demonstrates that we own or control the domain name associated
with the certificate.
In the command above, we used the ``--validation-method DNS``, which
requires us to add CNAME records to validate we control our domain name.
ACM supports both `DNS validation <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/acm/latest/userguide/gs-acm-validate-dns.html>`__
as well as `email validation <https://docs.aws.amazon.com/acm/latest/userguide/gs-acm-validate-email.html>`__.

To validate our domain, we'll now create the necessary CNAME records in our
hosted zone using the Route53 API.  First, we need to retrieve the values
for our CNAME record.  Be sure to replace the value of ``--certificate-arn``
with your own certificate ARN in the command below::

    $ aws acm describe-certificate --certificate-arn arn:aws:acm:us-west-2:0123456789:certificate/578efbda-6bc7-4ae2-9964-6e6c3f58008b \
        --query Certificate.DomainValidationOptions[0]
    {
        "DomainName": "*.chalice-demo-app.com",
        "ValidationDomain": "*.chalice-demo-app.com",
        "ValidationStatus": "PENDING_VALIDATION",
        "ResourceRecord": {
            "Name": "_1234567891234567897eb5512d9fb554.chalice-demo-app.com.",
            "Type": "CNAME",
            "Value": "_123456789123456789e7495341c27cd1.jfrzftwwjs.acm-validations.aws."
        },
        "ValidationMethod": "DNS"
    }

Next we'll create a CNAME record for
``_1234567891234567897eb5512d9fb554.chalice-demo-app.com.`` with a value of
``_123456789123456789e7495341c27cd1.jfrzftwwjs.acm-validations.aws.``::

    $ aws route53 change-resource-record-sets --hosted-zone-id $OUR_HOSTED_ZONE_ID --change-batch \
    '{
      "Changes": [
        {
          "Action": "CREATE",
          "ResourceRecordSet": {
            "Name": "_0073e080112eb8de8c7eb5512d9fb554.chalice-demo-app.com.",
            "Type": "CNAME",
            "TTL": 300,
            "ResourceRecords": [{"Value": "_6e560a5a9831aad210e7495341c27cd1.jfrzftwwjs.acm-validations.aws."}]
          }
        }
      ]
    }'
    
    # Command output:
    {
        "ChangeInfo": {
            "Id": "/change/C0339874QPDDRA8TKT7U",
            "Status": "PENDING",
            "SubmittedAt": "2020-07-21T17:36:39.902000+00:00"
        }
    }

It will take a few minutes before ACM validates your domain.  You can
move on to the next steps, or if you'd like to wait until the domain is
validated you can use the CLI's ``certificate-validated`` waiter, which
will block until the ACM certificate is validated::

    $ aws acm wait certificate-validated \
        --certificate-arn arn:aws:acm:us-west-2:0123456789:certificate/578efbda-6bc7-4ae2-9964-6e6c3f58008b


Chalice App Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now that we have our hosted zone and ACM certificate created, we can configure
our Chalice application with our custom domain.  To do so we need to add
`api_gateway_custom_domain <https://aws.github.io/chalice/topics/configfile.html#api-gateway-custom-domain>`__
configuration option and specify our ACM certificate ARN as well as the our
custom domain name.  You're ``.chalice/config.json`` file should look like
this:

.. code-block:: json

    {
      "version": "2.0",
      "app_name": "customdomain",
      "api_gateway_endpoint_type": "REGIONAL",
      "stages": {
        "dev": {
          "api_gateway_custom_domain": {
            "domain_name": "api.chalice-demo-app.com",
            "certificate_arn": "arn:aws:acm:us-west-2:0123456789:certificate/578efbda-6bc7-4ae2-9964-6e6c3f58008b"
          },
          "api_gateway_stage": "api"
        }
      }
    }

We we rerun the ``chalice deploy`` command you'll notice there's a new
``Custom domain name:`` line in the output::

    $ chalice deploy
    Creating deployment package.
    Updating policy for IAM role: customdomain-dev
    Updating lambda function: customdomain-dev
    Updating rest API
    Creating custom domain name: api.chalice-demo-app.com
    Creating api mapping: /
    Resources deployed:
      - Lambda ARN: arn:aws:lambda:us-west-2:0123456789:function:customdomain-dev
      - Rest API URL: https://qxea58abcd.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/api/
      - Custom domain name:
          HostedZoneId: Z1UJRXOUMOOFQ8
          AliasDomainName: d-6vj4cynstd.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com

Now that we've configured our Chalice app with our custom domain, there's one
step left.  We need to update our DNS configuration to point to our REST API.

To do this, we'll use the values of ``HostedZoneId`` and ``AliasDomainName``
in the output above to create an alias record in our hosted zone.

Alias Record Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can run the following command to create an alias record to your REST API.
Note that there are two different hosted zone id values here.  The value
specified as the ``--hosted-zone-id`` value is the ID of our hosted zone
ID (``$OUR_HOSTED_ZONE_ID``) that we created earlier in this example.
The value of the ``HostedZoneId`` in the ``AliasTarget`` section is the
value of the ``HostedZoneId`` generated by API Gateway shown in the output
of ``chalice deploy`` above.

::

    $ aws route53 change-resource-record-sets --hosted-zone-id ZABCDEFGABCDEFGLDO822 --change-batch \
    '{
      "Changes": [
        {
          "Action": "CREATE",
          "ResourceRecordSet": {
            "Name": "api.chalice-demo-app.com",
            "Type": "A",
            "AliasTarget": {
              "DNSName": "d-6vj4cynstd.execute-api.us-west-2.amazonaws.com",
              "HostedZoneId": "Z1UJRXOUMOOFQ8",
              "EvaluateTargetHealth": false
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }'
    
    # Command output:
    {
        "ChangeInfo": {
            "Id": "/change/C0539657Y0HMX8XBC5EH",
            "Status": "PENDING",
            "SubmittedAt": "2020-07-21T17:52:34.935000+00:00"
        }
    }


Verification
------------

Our Chalice application is now configured to use our custom domain.
We can verify this by making a request to our custom domain.  In this
example, this is ``api.chalice-demo-app.com``::

    $ curl -i https://api.chalice-demo-app.com/
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Date: Tue, 21 Jul 2020 17:56:00 GMT
    Content-Type: application/json
    Content-Length: 17
    Connection: keep-alive
    x-amzn-RequestId: 9f33fbb9-6b10-469e-827f-f287199c9bc5
    x-amz-apigw-id: QCPXoEwPIAMFi8Q=
    X-Amzn-Trace-Id: Root=1-5f172c30-dccc232932a16a539dfc01b9;Sampled=0

    {"hello":"world"}


Next Steps
----------

For more information on configuring custom domains, check out our
`topic guide <https://aws.github.io/chalice/topics/domainname.html>`__
on custom domains as well as the config file
reference for the
`api_gateway_custom_domain <https://aws.github.io/chalice/topics/configfile.html#api-gateway-custom-domain>`__
and the
`websocket_api_custom_domain <https://aws.github.io/chalice/topics/configfile.html#websocket-api-custom-domain>`__
options.
